Revamp Internal Horizon Documentation (#4948)
stellar/go: services/horizon/internal/docs/DEVELOPING_GUIDE.md

Reviewer: Consider renaming it to something like "DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md" or "GUIDE_FOR_DEVELOPERS.md"

# **Horizon Development Guide**

This document describes how to build Horizon from source, so that you can test and edit the code locally to develop bug fixes and new features.

> # **Running Stellar with Docker**

Reviewer 2: this section, lines 5-9, doesn't really state anything actionable, could be removed

Files related to docker and docker-compose
* `Dockerfile` and `Makefile` - used to build the official, package-based docker image for stellar-horizon
* `Dockerfile.dev` - used with docker-compose

## **Dependencies**

The only dependency you will need to install is [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## **Start script**

> [start.sh](./start.sh) will setup the env file and run docker-compose to start the Stellar docker containers. Feel free to use this script, otherwise continue with the next two steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[start.sh] (./start.sh) builds horizon from current source, and then runs docker-compose to start the docker containers with runtime config for horizon, postgres, and optionally core if optional `standalone` network parameter was included.
```

The script takes one optional parameter which configures the Stellar network used by the docker containers. If no parameter is supplied, the containers will run on the Stellar test network.

`./start.sh pubnet` will run the containers on the Stellar public network.

`./start.sh standalone` will run the containers on a private standalone Stellar network.

> ## **Run docker-compose**

Reviewer 2: delete lines 25-32, rather than telling people to run start or docker-compose, lets be a bit more opinionated, reduce instructions overall, and recommend just start.sh.

Run the following command to start all the Stellar docker containers:

```
docker-compose up -d --build
```

> Horizon will be exposed on port 8000. Stellar Core will be exposed on port 11626. The Stellar Core postgres instance will be exposed on port 5641.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Horizon will be exposed on port 8000. Stellar Core will be exposed on port 11626 if `standalone` was specified. The Stellar Core postgres instance will be exposed on port 5641.
```

The Horizon postgres instance will be exposed on port 5432.

## **Connecting to the Stellar Public Network**

By default, the Docker Compose file configures Stellar Core to connect to the Stellar test network. If you would like to run the docker containers on the

> Stellar public network, run `docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.pubnet.yml up -d --build`. 

Reviewer 2: recommend  `start.sh pubnet` usage instead of docker-compose for consistency?

## **Using a specific version of Stellar Core**

By default the Docker Compose file is configured to use version 18 of Protocol and Stellar Core. You want the Core version to be at same level as the version horizon repo expects for ingestion. You can specify optional environment variables from the command shell for stating version overrides for either the docker-compose or start.sh invocations. 

PROTOCOL_VERSION=18                              // the Stellar Protocol version number
CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18               // the docker hub image:tag 
STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal  // the apt deb package version from apt.stellar.org

Example:

Runs Stellar Protocol and Core version 18, for any mode of testnet, standalone, pubnet
```PROTOCOL_VERSION=18 CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18 STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal ./start.sh [standalone|pubnet]```

# **Installing and Developing Horizon**

## **Docker Installation**

The steps for a Horizon development/contributing cycle are as follows:

> 1. Use the start.sh script to spin up the horizon-postgres and horizon containers. The horizon container will also have its own stellar-core running in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the start.sh script to spin up the horizon-postgres and horizon containers. The horizon container will also start an instance of stellar-core to be used as the captive core process for ingestion.
```

    ```
    ./start.sh testnet
    ```

2. Check `localhost:8000` to see if horizon is successfully running and exposed on the port.

> 3. Now you can go ahead and make the required code changes. Make sure you have not broken anything by running the test suite from the `go/services/horizon` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Now you can proceed with edit-build-run cycles locally. Make sure you have not broken anything first by running the test suite from the `go/services/horizon` directory.
```

    ```
    go test ./...
    ```

4. Once all the tests are passing successfully, you need to stop and rebuild the horizon docker container for the changes to take effect. Go to `services/horizon/docker` and run the following commands:
    ```
    docker-compose down
    ./start.sh testnet
    ```
Horizon will be recompiled and re-deployed with your code changes.

Although this process works, it is pretty cumbersome since you need to stop and start the docker containers after each code change. The horizon docker container takes a lot of time to build and this hinders the use of a debugger.

## **Local Installation (Recommended)**

We will now configure a development environment to run Horizon locally without Docker.

### **Building Stellar Core**

> Horizon requires a local instance of stellar-core called Captive Core. Since, we are doing this for dev purposes its a good idea to build it from scratch using the latest release of stellar-core. Head over to the [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core/blob/master/INSTALL.md) file for the instructions.

Reviewer 2: should this include mention of strategy for getting a local core binary for the host machine, i.e using debian packages if on linux/amd64 host? building core from source will take 25+ minutes.

Author: Yeah good idea. I will add the documentation for it

### **Building Horizon**

The following developer tools are required:

- A [Unix-like](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix-like) operating system with the common core commands (cp, tar, mkdir, bash, etc.)
- Go (this repository is officially supported on the last two releases of Go)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) (to check out Horizon's source code)
- [mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/) (needed for `go-dep`)

> 1. Set your [GOPATH](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/GOPATH) environment variable, if you haven't already. The default `GOPATH` is `$HOME/go`. When building any Go package or application the binaries will be installed by default to `$GOPATH/bin`.

Reviewer 2: I think can delete general go config like this to reduce content.

> 2. Fork the repository and clone the fork into any directory you prefer:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Clone the repository to a local directory:
```

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/stellar/go
   ```

>    Or if you prefer to develop inside `GOPATH` check it out to `$GOPATH/src/github.com/stellar/go`:

Reviewer 2: recommend deleting lines 115-119,  opt for more opinionated single path and recommend clone to regular directory outside gopath.

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/stellar/go $GOPATH/src/github.com/stellar/go
   ```
   If developing inside `GOPATH` set the `GO111MODULE=on` environment variable to turn on Modules for managing dependencies. See the repository [README](../../../../README.md#dependencies) for more information.
3. Change to the directory where the repository is checked out. e.g. `cd go`, or if developing inside the `GOPATH`, `cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/stellar/go`.
4. Compile the Horizon binary: `go install ./services/horizon`. You should see the resulting `horizon` executable in `$GOPATH/bin`.
5. Add Go binaries to your PATH in your `bashrc` or equivalent, for easy access: `export PATH=${GOPATH//://bin:}/bin:$PATH`

Open a new terminal. Confirm everything worked by running `horizon --help` successfully. You should see an informative message listing the command line options supported by Horizon.

### **Run tests**

> At this point you should be able to run Horizon's unit tests:

Reviewer 2: maybe mention both unit and integration tests by setting `HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_*` env variables first and how both tests depend on a local postrgres at 5432, integration tests example from cli

```
HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_ENABLED=true HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_CORE_MAX_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOL=19 HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_DOCKER_IMG=stellar/stellar-core:<core_tag> go test -race -timeout 25m -v ./services/horizon/internal/integration/...
```

```
cd /go/services/horizon
go test ./...
```

### **Database Setup**

> Horizon uses a Postgres database backend to store test fixtures and record information ingested from an associated Stellar Core. You can either set it up locally or use the docker container provided in `services/horizon/docker` container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Horizon uses a Postgres database backend to record information ingested from an associated Stellar Core. You can either install the server locally or run any type of docker container that hosts the database server, here is one example:
`
docker run --platform linux/amd64 -d --env POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust -p 5432:5432 circleci/postgres:9.6.5-alpine
`
```
and then delete lines 137 - 154

```
docker-compose -f ./services/horizon/docker/docker-compose.yml up horizon-postgres
```
This starts a Horizon Postgres docker container and exposes it on the port 5432.

### **Setup Debug Configuration in IDE**

Add a debug configuration in your IDE to attach a debugger to the local Horizon process and set breakpoints in your code. Here is an example configuration for VS Code:

```
    {
        "name": "Horizon Debugger",
        "type": "go",
        "request": "launch",
        "mode": "debug",
        "program": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/main.go",
        "env": {
            "DATABASE_URL": "postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/horizon?sslmode=disable",
            "NETWORK_PASSPHRASE": "Test SDF Network ; September 2015",
            "CAPTIVE_CORE_CONFIG_APPEND_PATH": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/docker/captive-core-testnet.cfg",
            "HISTORY_ARCHIVE_URLS": "https://history.stellar.org/prd/core-testnet/core_testnet_001",
            "INGEST": "true",
            "PER_HOUR_RATE_LIMIT": "0"
        },
        "args": []
    }
```
If all is well, you should see ingest logs written to standard out.

> 

Reviewer 2: it might be cool to also mention example of how to step/debug in IDE for unit or integration test, you would need to include env variables, an ad-hoc way is to just paste this at the top of test function, and then execute the test function in IDE such as in VSCode, the `debug test` option to execute the test appears on hover over any test function.

```
os.Setenv("HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_ENABLE_CAPTIVE_CORE","true")
os.Setenv("HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_CORE_MAX_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOL","19")
os.Setenv("HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_ENABLED","true") 
os.Setenv("HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_CAPTIVE_CORE_BIN","<your_local_path_to_core_bin>");

```

Author: Actually we can just add the environment variables to the debug configuration in an IDE. That way whenever tests are run, all these variables will take effect

When you run Stellar Core on a private stand-alone network, an account will be created which will hold 100 billion Lumens.
The seed for the account will be emitted in the Stellar Core logs:

```
2020-04-22T18:39:19.248 GD5KD [Ledger INFO] Root account seed: SC5O7VZUXDJ6JBDSZ74DSERXL7W3Y5LTOAMRF7RQRL3TAGAPS7LUVG3L
```

When running Horizon on a private stand-alone network, Horizon will not start ingesting until Stellar Core creates its first history archive snapshot. Stellar Core creates snapshots every 64 ledgers, which means ingestion will be delayed until ledger 64.

When you switch between different networks you will need to clear the Stellar Core and Stellar Horizon databases. You can wipe out the databases by running `docker-compose down --remove-orphans -v`.

## **Using a specific version of Stellar Core**

By default the Docker Compose file is configured to use version 18 of Protocol and Stellar Core. You want the Core version to be at same level as the version horizon repo expects for ingestion. You can specify optional environment variables from the command shell for stating version overrides for either the docker-compose or start.sh invocations. 

> 
> PROTOCOL_VERSION=18                              // the Stellar Protocol version number
> CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18               // the docker hub image:tag 
> STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal  // the apt deb package version from apt.stellar.org
> 

Reviewer 3: should this be a code block?

```suggestion

```bash
PROTOCOL_VERSION=18                              # the Stellar Protocol version number
CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18               # the docker hub image:tag 
STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal  # the apt deb package version from apt.stellar.org
```

```

Author: Ah thanks for this. I think I did not wrap it correctly

Example:

Runs Stellar Protocol and Core version 18, for any mode of testnet, standalone, pubnet
```PROTOCOL_VERSION=18 CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18 STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal ./start.sh [standalone|pubnet]```

# **Installing and Developing Horizon**

## **Docker Installation**

The steps for a Horizon development/contributing cycle are as follows:

1. Use the start.sh script to spin up the horizon-postgres and horizon containers. The horizon container will also start an instance of stellar-core to be used as the captive core process for ingestion.

>     ```

Reviewer 3: I think that your use of code blocks messes up the inline markdown renderer, even though the rendered stuff looks fine! I think you should align the ```s with the page edge and add newlines? :thinking:

Author: Umm, if I take it to page edge, then the numbered bullet points are not working properly. I see that it is being rendered properly in the final markdown version. Did you have any issues in your IDE?

    ./start.sh testnet
    ```

2. Check `localhost:8000` to see if horizon is successfully running and exposed on the port.

3. Now you can proceed with edit-build-run cycles locally. Make sure you have not broken anything first by running the test suite from the `go/services/horizon` directory.
    ```
    go test ./...
    ```

4. Once all the tests are passing successfully, you need to stop and rebuild the horizon docker container for the changes to take effect. Go to `services/horizon/docker` and run the following commands:

>     ```

Reviewer 3: you can add `bash` to the triple-backticks to get nicer syntax highlighting :smile: 

as in, ```bash

### **Building Stellar Core**

Horizon requires a local instance of stellar-core called Captive Core. Since, we are doing this for dev purposes its a good idea to build it from scratch using the latest release of stellar-core. Head over to the [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core/blob/master/INSTALL.md) file for the instructions.

### **Building Horizon**

The following developer tools are required:

- A [Unix-like](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix-like) operating system with the common core commands (cp, tar, mkdir, bash, etc.)
- Go (this repository is officially supported on the last two releases of Go)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) (to check out Horizon's source code)
- [mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/) (needed for `go-dep`)

1. Fork the repository and clone the fork into any directory you prefer:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/stellar/go
   ```
2. Change to the directory where the repository is checked out. e.g. `cd go`.
3. Compile the Horizon binary: `go install ./services/horizon`. You should see the resulting `horizon` executable in `go/services/horizon`.

> 4. Add the horizon binaries to your PATH in your `bashrc` or equivalent, for easy access: `export PATH=${GOPATH//://bin:}/bin:$PATH`

Reviewer 3: is this an appropriate area to mention the use of `stellar-horizon` in public docs?

Author: Yes, I think we can add the step of creating a symlink with stellar-horizon name

Open a new terminal. Confirm everything worked by running `horizon --help` successfully. You should see an informative message listing the command line options supported by Horizon.

### **Run tests**
At this point you should be able to run Horizon's unit tests:
```
cd /go/services/horizon
go test ./...
```

> ### **Database Setup**

Reviewer 3: headers are implicitly bold

> Horizon uses a Postgres database backend to record information ingested from an associated Stellar Core. You can either install the server locally or run any type of docker container that hosts the database server, here is one example:

Reviewer 2: It might be worthwhile to qualify this as `Horizon unit and integration tests will attempt to reference a Postgres db server at localhost:5432 with trust auth method enabled by default for `postgres` user.  To support this aspect, you can either install ...`

```

> docker run --platform linux/amd64 -d --env POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust -p 5432:5432 circleci/postgres:9.6.5-alpine

Reviewer 2: we should probably update this to more modern version of postgres per team discussion, maybe at least 12+ ?

> docker run --platform linux/amd64 -d --env POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust -p 5432:5432 circleci/postgres:9.6.5-alpine

Reviewer 3: what's the purpose of the auth_method? I've never used that

Author: So I believe POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD enables one to connect to Horizon without using any password. Otherwise we will have to define a password to connect to the postgres instance.

```
This starts a Horizon Postgres docker container and exposes it on the port 5432.

> ### **Setup Debug Configuration in IDE**

Reviewer 3: this is freaking awesome, I normally use `gdb` like a neanderthal

Add a debug configuration in your IDE to attach a debugger to the local Horizon process and set breakpoints in your code. Here is an example configuration for VS Code:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```json
```

    {
        "name": "Horizon Debugger",
        "type": "go",
        "request": "launch",
        "mode": "debug",
        "program": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/main.go",
        "env": {
            "DATABASE_URL": "postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/horizon?sslmode=disable",
            "NETWORK_PASSPHRASE": "Test SDF Network ; September 2015",
            "CAPTIVE_CORE_CONFIG_APPEND_PATH": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/docker/captive-core-testnet.cfg",
            "HISTORY_ARCHIVE_URLS": "https://history.stellar.org/prd/core-testnet/core_testnet_001",
            "INGEST": "true",
            "PER_HOUR_RATE_LIMIT": "0"
        },
        "args": []
    }
```
If all is well, you should see ingest logs written to standard out.

## **Testing Horizon API using Stellar Laboratory**

> You can test your Horizon instance with a query like: http://localhost:8001/transactions?limit=10&order=asc. However, its much easier to use the [Stellar Laboratory](https://www.stellar.org/laboratory/) to craft other queries to try out. Select `Custom` Horizon URL and enter `http://localhost:8000`.

Reviewer 3: suggestion: code wrap so it's not clickable?

```suggestion
You can test your Horizon instance with a query like: `http://localhost:8001/transactions?limit=10&order=asc`. However, its much easier to use the [Stellar Laboratory](https://www.stellar.org/laboratory/) to craft other queries to try out. Select `Custom` Horizon URL and enter `http://localhost:8000`.
```

Read about the available endpoints and see examples in the [Horizon API reference](https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/).

## **Development Cycle**
Congratulations! You can now run the full development cycle to build and test your code.
1. Write code + tests
2. Run tests
3. Compile and Run Horizon: `go install /go/services/horizon && go build /go/services/horizon`. Tip: If you have setup the debug configuration as mentioned above, then it will always build and start Horizon so you do not need to compile it manually.

# **Notes for Developers**

This section contains additional information related to the development of Horizon.

## <a name="regen"></a> **Regenerating generated code**

> Horizon uses two Go tools you'll need to install:

Reviewer 3: you say two tools then list one, hehe

Author: Oops 😅

1. [go-bindata](github.com/kevinburke/go-bindata) is used to bundle test data

> After the above are installed, run `go generate github.com/stellar/go/services/horizon/...`.

Reviewer 3: better to just run `./gogenerate.sh` from the root, I think?

## <a name="logging"></a> **Logging**

> All logging infrastructure is in the `github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/horizon/internal/log` package.  This package provides "level-based" logging:  Each logging statement has a severity, one of "Debug", "Info", "Warn", "Error" or "Panic".  The Horizon server has a configured level "filter", specified either using the `--log-level` command line flag or the `LOG_LEVEL` environment variable.  When a logging statement is executed, the statements declared severity is checked against the filter and will only be emitted if the severity of the statement is equal or higher severity than the filter.

Reviewer 3: either make this a link e.g. [`services/horizon/internal/log`](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/horizon/internal/log) or just use the relative path

In addition, the logging subsystem has support for fields: Arbitrary key-value pairs that will be associated with an entry to allow for filtering and additional contextual information.

### **Making logging statements**

> Assuming that you've imports the log package, making a simple logging call is just:

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
Assuming that you've imported the `log` package, making a simple logging call is just:
```

```go

log.Info("my log line")
log.Infof("I take a %s", "format string")

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: unnecessary whitespace in the block makes it larger than necessary when viewing inline

```

Adding fields to a statement happens with a call to `WithField` or `WithFields`

```go

> log.WithField("pid", 1234).Warn("i'm scared")

Reviewer 3: lmao

Unfortunately, it is not prudent to thread an `*http.Request` parameter to every downstream subroutine and so we need another way to make that information available.  The idiomatic way to do this in Go is with a context parameter, as describe [on the Go blog](https://blog.golang.org/context).  The logging provides a func to bind a logger to a context using `log.Set` and allows you to retrieve a bound logger using `log.Ctx(ctx)`.  Functions that need to log on behalf of an server request should take a context parameter.

Here's an example of using context:

```go

// create a new sublogger
sub := log.WithField("val", 1)

// bind it to a context
ctx := log.Set(context.Background(), sub)

log.Info("no fields on this statement")

> log.Ctx(ctx).Info("This statement will use the sub logger")

Reviewer 3: wait, can't you just 

```golang
sub.Info("This statement will use the sub logger")
```

instead?

Reviewer 3: oh wait it's the "grabbing the logger from the context" that is important here. nice! didn't know this

```

### **Logging Best Practices**

It's recommended that you try to avoid contextual information in your logging messages.  Instead, use fields to establish context and use a static string for your message.  This practice allows Horizon operators to more easily filter log lines to provide better insight into the health of the server.  Lets take an example:

```go
// BAD
log.Infof("running initializer: %s", i.Name)

//GOOD
log.WithField("init_name", i.Name).Info("running initializer")
```

> With the "bad" form of the logging example above, an operator can filter on both the message as well as the initializer name independently.  This gets more powerful when multiple fields are combined, allowing for all sorts of slicing and dicing.

Reviewer 3: to an extent, yeah? not every format string needs a field, but it definitely can be useful for filtering/aggregation. but maybe an unnecessary amount of nuance

Author: Yeah I think we can just remove this section. Going too much into detail. I just copied this from the Notes to Developers section so some sections might be outdated now

### **Enabling TLS on your local workstation**

> Horizon support HTTP/2 when served using TLS.  To enable TLS on your local workstation, you must generate a certificate and configure Horizon to use it.  We've written a helper script at `tls/regen.sh` to make this simple.  Run the script from your terminal, and simply choose all the default options.  This will create two files: `tls/server.crt` and `tls/server.key`.

Reviewer 3: nit:

```suggestion
Horizon supports HTTP/2 when served using TLS.  To enable TLS on your local workstation, you must generate a certificate and configure Horizon to use it.  We've written a helper script at `tls/regen.sh` to make this simple.  Run the script from your terminal, and simply choose all the default options.  This will create two files: `tls/server.crt` and `tls/server.key`.
```

----------

Also,

> Horizon supports HTTP/2

but the main SDK doesn't :laughing: (https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-sdk/issues/612)

Author: I think we can remove this section altogether

Now you must configure Horizon to use them: You can simply add `--tls-cert tls/server.crt --tls-key tls/server.key` to your command line invocations of Horizon, or you may specify `TLS_CERT` and `TLS_KEY` environment variables.

### **Adding migrations**
1. Add your migration to `services/horizon/internal/db2/schema/migrations/` using the same name nomenclature as other migrations.

> 2. After creating you migration, run `bash services/horizon/internal/scripts/rebuild_schema.bash` this script will create all the autogenerated code for migrations.

Reviewer 3: eh, easier to remember to just run `./gogenerate.sh` from the root

# **Horizon Development Guide**

This document describes how to build Horizon from source, so that you can test and edit the code locally to develop bug fixes and new features.

# **Running Stellar with Docker**

The `docker` folder provides a set of docker files and start script to quickly setup a running Horizon instance.

## **Dependencies**

The only dependency you will need to install is [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

> ## **Start script**

Reviewer: It might be helpful to add steps to clone the repo and may be mention `git` as dependency before suggesting to run `script.sh`.

[start.sh](./start.sh) builds horizon from current source, and then runs docker-compose to start the docker containers with runtime config for horizon, postgres, and optionally core if optional `standalone` network parameter was included.

The script takes one optional parameter which configures the Stellar network used by the docker containers. If no parameter is supplied, the containers will run on the Stellar test network.

> 

Reviewer: Like we've mentioned on line 70 & 83,  it might be helpful to include `./start.sh testnet will run......` for completeness.

`./start.sh pubnet` will run the containers on the Stellar public network.

`./start.sh standalone` will run the containers on a private standalone Stellar network.

The following ports will be exposed:
- Horizon: **8000**
- Horizon-Postgres: **5432**
- Stellar-Core (If `standalone` specified): **11626**
- Stellar-Core-Postgres: **5641**

## **Connecting to the Stellar Public Network**

By default, the Docker Compose file configures Stellar Core to connect to the Stellar test network. If you would like to run the docker containers on the
Stellar public network, run `./start.sh pubnet`. 

> To run the containers on a private stand-alone network, run `./start.sh standalone`.

Reviewer: Consider creating a dedicated section for running Horizon in the standalone network and add the significance of running it in standalone network.

When you run Stellar Core on a private stand-alone network, an account will be created which will hold 100 billion Lumens.
The seed for the account will be emitted in the Stellar Core logs:

```
2020-04-22T18:39:19.248 GD5KD [Ledger INFO] Root account seed: SC5O7VZUXDJ6JBDSZ74DSERXL7W3Y5LTOAMRF7RQRL3TAGAPS7LUVG3L
```

When running Horizon on a private stand-alone network, Horizon will not start ingesting until Stellar Core creates its first history archive snapshot. Stellar Core creates snapshots every 64 ledgers, which means ingestion will be delayed until ledger 64.

> When you switch between different networks you will need to clear the Stellar Core and Stellar Horizon databases. You can wipe out the databases by running `docker-compose down --remove-orphans -v`.

Reviewer: This is super helpful!

> ## **Using a specific version of Stellar Core**

Reviewer: Consider moving this section to a later part of the document. Also, it would be nice to update the version in the example with the current version.

By default, the Docker Compose file is configured to use version 18 of Protocol and Stellar Core. You want the Core version to be at same level as the version horizon repo expects for ingestion. You can specify optional environment variables from the command shell for stating version overrides for either the docker-compose or start.sh invocations. 
```bash
export PROTOCOL_VERSION="18"

> eport CORE_IMAGE="stellar/stellar-core:18" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export CORE_IMAGE="stellar/stellar-core:18" 
```

export STELLAR_CORE_VERSION="18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal"
```

Example:

Runs Stellar Protocol and Core version 18, for any mode of testnet, standalone, pubnet
```bash
PROTOCOL_VERSION=18 CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:18 STELLAR_CORE_VERSION=18.1.1-779.ef0f44b44.focal ./start.sh [standalone|pubnet]
```

# **Installing and Developing Horizon**

> ## **Docker Installation**

Reviewer: I think we can separate the section of installing Horizon and verifying the installation from the active Horizon development steps. For eg, step 3 here will require installing Go. So it can be included in the active development section starting line 97.

    ```bash
    ./start.sh testnet
    ```

2. Check `localhost:8000` to see if horizon is successfully running and exposed on the port.

3. Now you can proceed with edit-build-run cycles locally. Make sure you have not broken anything first by running the test suite from the `go/services/horizon` directory.
    ```bash
    go test ./...
    ```

4. Once all the tests are passing successfully, you need to stop and rebuild the horizon docker container for the changes to take effect. Go to `services/horizon/docker` and run the following commands:
    ```bash
    docker-compose down
    ./start.sh testnet
    ```
Horizon will be recompiled and re-deployed with your code changes.

Although this process works, it is pretty cumbersome since you need to stop and start the docker containers after each code change. The horizon docker container takes a lot of time to build and this hinders the use of a debugger.

## **Local Installation (Recommended)**

We will now configure a development environment to run Horizon locally without Docker.

### **Building Stellar Core**

> Horizon requires a local instance of stellar-core called Captive Core. Since, we are doing this for dev purposes its a good idea to build it from scratch using the latest release of stellar-core. Head over to the [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core/blob/master/INSTALL.md) file for the instructions.

Reviewer: Nice!

3. Compile the Horizon binary: `go build -o stellar-horizon && go install`. You should see the resulting `stellar-horizon` executable in `go/services/horizon`.
4. Add the executable to your PATH in your `~/.bashrc` or equivalent, for easy access: `export PATH=$PATH:{absolute-path-to-horizon-folder}`

Open a new terminal. Confirm everything worked by running `stellar-horizon --help` successfully. You should see an informative message listing the command line options supported by Horizon.

### **Run tests**
At this point you should be able to run Horizon's unit tests:
```bash
cd /go/services/horizon/
go test ./...
```

To run the integration tests, you need to set some environment variables:

```bash
export HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_ENABLED=true 
export HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_CORE_MAX_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOL=19
export HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_DOCKER_IMG=stellar/stellar-core:latest
go test -race -timeout 25m -v ./services/horizon/internal/integration/...
```
This will also require a Postgres instance running on port 5432 either locally or exposed through a docker container. Also note that the ``POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD`` has been enabled.

> ### **Database Setup**

Reviewer: Wondering if it would be helpful to include also the steps to install and setup Postgres db locally for Horizon?

Author: I thought about that but I dont think we should add more information and lengthen the guide. Users can find good resources on installing locally on Google.

Reviewer: I agree that including the installation steps may not be necessary, but including info on setting up a local PostgreSQL db for Horizon may still be useful. You can find instructions on prepping the db for Horizon on our [public docs](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/run-api-server/configuring#preparing-the-database). It might be helpful to either include that info here or point to the public doc for prepping the db.

> Horizon uses a Postgres database backend to record information ingested from an associated Stellar Core. The unit and integration tests will also attempt to reference a Postgres db server at ``localhost:5432`` with trust auth method enabled by default for postgres user.  You can either install the server locally or run any type of docker container that hosts the database server. Here is one example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Horizon uses a Postgres database backend to record information ingested from an associated Stellar Core. The unit and integration tests will also attempt to reference a Postgres db server at ``localhost:5432`` with trust auth method enabled by default for ``postgres`` user. You can either install the server locally or run any type of docker container that hosts the database server. Here is one example:
```

Reviewer: I'm assuming by "default for postgres user" you mean that the username is `postgres`. Please ignore if that's not the case.

```bash
docker run --platform linux/amd64 -d --env POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust -p 5432:5432 circleci/postgres:12-alpine
```

Or use the ``docker-compose.yml`` file in the ``docker`` container:
```bash
docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose.yml up horizon-postgres
```
This starts a Horizon Postgres docker container and exposes it on the port 5432.

### **Setup Debug Configuration in IDE**

#### **Code Debug**
Add a debug configuration in your IDE to attach a debugger to the local Horizon process and set breakpoints in your code. Here is an example configuration for VS Code:

```json
 {
     "name": "Horizon Debugger",
     "type": "go",
     "request": "launch",
     "mode": "debug",
     "program": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/main.go",
     "env": {
         "DATABASE_URL": "postgres://postgres@localhost:5432/horizon?sslmode=disable",
         "NETWORK_PASSPHRASE": "Test SDF Network ; September 2015",
         "CAPTIVE_CORE_CONFIG_APPEND_PATH": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/docker/captive-core-testnet.cfg",

>          "HISTORY_ARCHIVE_URLS": "https://history.stellar.org/prd/core-testnet/core_testnet_001",

Reviewer: Can replace line 161:163 with 'NETWORK' parameter `"NETWORK": "testnet",`

>          "INGEST": "true",

Reviewer: `INGEST` is true by default.

         "PER_HOUR_RATE_LIMIT": "0"
     },
     "args": []
 }
```
If all is well, you should see ingest logs written to standard out.

#### **Test Debug**
You can also use a similar configuration to debug the integration and unit tests. For e.g. here is a configuration for debugging the ```TestFilteringAccountWhiteList``` integration test.
```json
{
   "name": "Debug Test Function",
   "type": "go",
   "request": "launch",
   "mode": "test",
   "program": "${workspaceRoot}/services/horizon/internal/integration",
   "env": {
       "HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_ENABLED": "true",
       "HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_CORE_MAX_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOL": "19",
       "HORIZON_INTEGRATION_TESTS_DOCKER_IMG": "stellar/stellar-core:latest"
   },
   "args": [
       "-test.run",
       "TestFilteringAccountWhiteList",
       "-test.timeout",
       "5m",
       "./..."
   ],
   "showLog": true
}
```

## **Testing Horizon API using Stellar Laboratory**

> You can test your Horizon instance with a query like: `http://localhost:8001/transactions?limit=10&order=asc`. However, it's much easier to use the [Stellar Laboratory](https://www.stellar.org/laboratory/) to craft other queries to try out. Select `Custom` Horizon URL and enter `http://localhost:8000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test your Horizon instance with a query like: `http://localhost:8000/transactions?limit=10&order=asc`. However, it's much easier to use the [Stellar Laboratory](https://www.stellar.org/laboratory/) to craft other queries to try out. Select `Custom` Horizon URL and enter `http://localhost:8000`.
```

Read about the available endpoints and see examples in the [Horizon API reference](https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/).

> ## **Development Cycle**

Reviewer: I think everything mentioned in this section has been covered already so not sure if this section is required.

Author: Yeah nice idea. Its redundant

```

Adding fields to a statement happens with a call to `WithField` or `WithFields`

```go
log.WithField("pid", 1234).Warn("i'm scared")

log.WithFields(log.F{
	"some_field": 123,
	"second_field": "hello",
}).Debug("here")
```

The return value from `WithField` or `WithFields` is a `*log.Entry`, which you can save to emit multiple logging
statements that all share the same field.  For example, the action system for Horizon attaches a log entry to `action.Log` on every request that can be used to emit log entries that have the request's id attached as a field.

### **Logging and Context**

The logging package provides the root logger at `log.DefaultLogger` and the package level funcs such as `log.Info` operate against the default logger.  However, often it is important to include request-specific fields in a logging statement that are not available in the local scope.  For example, it is useful to include an http request's id in every log statement that is emitted by code running on behalf of the request.  This allows for easier debugging, as an operator can filter the log stream to a specific request id and not have to wade through the entirety of the log.

> Unfortunately, it is not prudent to thread an `*http.Request` parameter to every downstream subroutine and so we need another way to make that information available.  The idiomatic way to do this in Go is with a context parameter, as describe [on the Go blog](https://blog.golang.org/context).  The logging provides a func to bind a logger to a context using `log.Set` and allows you to retrieve a bound logger using `log.Ctx(ctx)`.  Functions that need to log on behalf of an server request should take a context parameter.

Reviewer: It looks like an extension of the previous point. Consider combining the two points and may be using simpler language like"
 
_"The Go logging package provides a root logger at `log.DefaultLogger` and functions like `log.Info` use this default logger. To include request-specific details without extra parameter passing, use [Go's](https://blog.golang.org/context) idiomatic approach of using a context parameter with `log.Set` and `log.Ctx(ctx)` functions."_

Here's an example of using context:

```go

// create a new sublogger
sub := log.WithField("val", 1)

// bind it to a context
ctx := log.Set(context.Background(), sub)

log.Info("no fields on this statement")
log.Ctx(ctx).Info("This statement will use the sub logger")

```

> ### **Adding migrations**

Reviewer: Where can I learn more about applying migrations? Is there another db document we could include a link to?

Author: Let me take a look on where to find more info for that. I will link it here in the documentation

Author: @urvisavla I think we will need to create some info dump about db migrations. I could not find anything from the current horizon documentation. I can add that in the next doc PR
